Performance testing:
--------------------



Test Plan:
----------
	Chain or series of steps that jMeter is going to execute when the
run button is pressed. 

    A complete test plan will consist of
---		one or more thread groups, 
---		Logic controllers, 
---		sample generating controllers,
---		listeners,
---		timers,
---		assertion and
---		configuration elements.

*** A test plan must have atleast one test plan

1.Adding Elements 
2.Removing Elements 
3.Saving the test plan 
4.Running a test plan 
5.Stopping a test(Stop[immediate(forceful) shutdown], Shutdown[graceful(It will shows the running in background) shutdown])
6.Logging the info and errors 

Important in Test Plan:
-----------------------

Test Group(Important for the TestPlan)
Controllers(Logical controller and sampler present under in Thread group)
Listeners
Timers
Assertion

Thread Group:(Under Test plan all the actions done in thread group)
-------------

1.Beginning point of any test plan(e.g like main-method in java)
2.The thread group element controls the number of threads jMeter will use to execute your test
3.All the controllers and samplers must be under a thread group
4.Other elements(e.g Listeners,May be placed directly under the test plan, so that it will applicable for all the thread group
				under the test plan)

Thread properties:
-----------------
Number of Threads(User)		: How many users access simultaneously
Ramp-Up period(in seconds)	: User adding one by one
Loop count					: How many it will run

Number of Threads(User):
	Set the number of threads(simulation of number of concurrent users)
	
Ramp-Up period:
	(time taken to threads up and running=Ramp up period/Thread)
	
	If i give 10 threads and ramp up duration as 100/10 = 10 seconds. Which means for every 10 secondsone thread will start 
	getting executed or the second thread will execute after 10 seconds of the first thread.

Loop count:	
Set the number of times to execute the test

Controllers:
------------
Samplers---: 
	1.It presents under the thread group
	2.It indicated the JMeter to send request to a server and wait for a response
	(e.g) I want to send the request with multiple user stay in website for a while in http request
	
	HTTP- http type request
	FTP-  File transfer protocal(Any file transfer kind request)
	JDBC- Java Database Connection(Data base kind request)

Performance testing mainly focuses on three factors of a Software Program:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

Speed - If the response of the application is fast or not 
Scalability - The maximum user load is determined
Stability - The application is checked under varying loads

There are six types of performance testing, namely: 
          -----------------------------------------              		  
 1. Load Testing
    
Load testing is a type in which it tests an application for its performance at normal and peak usage.
The performance is checked as per the response time and consistency on different user loads.

2. Volume Testing 

Volume testing is a type where the system's performance is checked concerning the volume of data.
To perform the test, it enters a vast amount of data into the database.

3. Stress Testing 

Stress testing is a type in which different ways to break the system are found, i.e., how much load a system can sustain.
It checks how much load a system can hold in an incremental approach.

4. Capacity Testing

Capacity testing is a type in which it checks an application for its capability to meet business volumes.
The testing is performed, keeping in mind the prospects of an application and the number of users.

5. Reliability Testing 

Reliability testing is when the application is verified if the application would become normal again after an abnormal state.
It estimates the time that the system would take to return to its normal state.

6. Scalability Testing

Scalability testing is a type where the application is determined if it could scale up whenever needed.
The need for scaling up comes when there is an increase in user load.

Performance Testing Process
The process of performance testing is divided into the following eight parts: 

Performance_Testing_Process:

1. Requirement Gathering
The requirements are identified and gathered from the clients.
The information on the application’s infrastructure, functionality, and usage is gathered.

2. Selection of Tools
After the analysis is complete, it performs proof of concept with the available tools.
The available tools list depends on the tool cost and the technology used.

3. Performance Test Plan
After the above steps, test planning and designing are done.
It is the test plan that decides how the performance test will take place.

4. Performance Test Development
Here, the use cases for the identified functionalities are created.
Once the clients approve the use case, the script development begins.
These scripts are then validated, and parallelly the test environment is set up.

5. Performance Test Modeling
Here the performance load model is created for test execution.
It is checked if they achieve the performance metrics provided by the clients.

6. Execution of Test
Initially, the tests are not executed with maximum users that are in the Load model.
It does the text execution in incremental order.

7. Test Results Analysis
Results are the most important deliverable for performance testing.
Here, the ROI and productivity that performance testing may provide are shown.

8. Report 
At the end of all the steps, it is necessary to have a simplified conclusion
A brief, descriptive, and to-the-point test report is made.

Listeners:
----------
	When the JMeter runs the test cases, there will be some sort information will be obtained as a by product
of the execution of the test cases. Those information can be accessed with the help of Listeners.

JMeter has several listener options. Few of them are:

*Graph result ----- It shownin the graph view Avg, Mean and to find the nature of performance
*View results tree ----- It shows the HTTP- req category type and shown the response type
*View results table ----- It shows in table format and also shown the latency(delay time b/w req and res), response size etc
*Aggregate report ----- Aggregate(Combine the one or two more things and say as collective), Collective request type
*Aggregate graph ----- It shows in a graphical view.
*Response Time Graph --- It shows the time of res and req.

HTTP Test Script Recorder:
--------------------------
*How to record test on JMeter
*How to add & use Test Script Recorder
*How to add & use Recording controller
*How to use proxy on firefox, chrome and system
*How to add SSL cerificate
*How to do Request filtering
*How to use Recording Template

What?
It is an element in JMeter that helps us to record our http request insted of manually adding our request
in a http sampler 

Why?
We can browse the action it will automatically record the steps and save lots of time, efficient and powerful

https://lifecharger.org

How?

TestPlan ----- Add ------- Nontest element ------ Http(s) test script recorder

TestPlan ----- Add ------- Threads(user) ----- Thread group

Thread group ----- Logic controllers ----- Recording Controller(To add Recorded steps)

